


# Building Ventilation Software

## Project Description 
An automatic control system for a building's ventilation, where a software base platform will analyze several environmental factors (e.g. temperature, humidity, carbon monoxide levels) and decide whether to send a signal to turn the system on or off.

Some environmental conditions will have higher priority than others so our software will aim to maintain comfort as best as possible.

As of now we are uncertain of all the hardware that we will be working with but we for sure know that we will have Arduino sensors to track indoor and outdoor environments.

We have also begun discussing whether we would like to create a UI that would allow users to set their preferences. It could potentially be used to set the priority levels for each condition.

## Contributions and Practices
If contributing:
- Follow the coding style and conventions
- Write variable, method, and class names to be descriptive
- Write comments

### Project Structure
- `read_serial.py` – Python script for reading and saving Arduino Serial Monitor data
- `final_code.ino` – Finalized Arduino code integrating sensors and comfort algorithm
- `mainGUI.py` – Finalized GUI that shows real-time data and allows for user input
- `ui_updatedgui.py` - UI components for the main GUI
- `arduino_data.csv` – CSV file generated by read_serial.py containing sensor readings

### Branching and Merging
- For new features create a branch such as:
`git checkout -b feature-name`

## Requirements To Run Code
This code requires several different applications and software:

### Arduino IDE 2.3.4
#### Libraries
- Adafruit Unified Sensor by Adafruit
- DHT sensor library by Adafruit
- Mhz19 by Eduard Malokhvi

## To Run Code
1. Make sure all libraries are installed
2. Connect the Arduino
3. Verify and Upload the `final_code.ino` in the Arduino IDE
4. To output results, run `read_serial.py` in the command line

### Run the GUI
To run the GUI:
- Install PySide6 using: `pip install pyside6`
- Configure Pathname to the file generated from PLX-DAQ (update variable `file_path` on line 26)
- To run the code use the command `python initalGUI.py`

## GUI
The GUI has user input features for entering a desired temperature.
First, ensure that the "Auto Mode" box is unchecked. To enter a temperature, click the "Modify" button. Then, enter the lowest and highest temperature range, and the lowest and highest humidity range. The window will balance between these temperatures. 

To use the default temperatures provided in the code, ensure that "Auto Mode" is checked.
## Technologies 
### Languages
C++
- Version: C++ 23
- Arduino language based on C++
  
Python
- Version: Python 3.12.0
- PySide 6

### Environment
Arduino IDE
- Version: 2.3.4

### Hardware
Arduino
- Model: unknown
- Temperature and Humidity sensor
- Light sensor
- Sound sensor
- CO2 sensor
- Smoke sensor

## Team Roles
Product Owner: Mason
Quality Assurance: David 
Scrum Master 1: Kaitlyn
Scrum Master 2: Landon
Scrum Master 3: Kazi
Scrum Master 4: Gerry

## Group Goals / Future Plans
- We are planning to see what technology is readily available so we can find a starting point for the software.
- Further discussions regarding UI implementation.
- We want to figure out how to optimize comfort first and then a plan to optimize energy if feasible.
